# xvg2csv
## xvg2csv.py converts a Gromacs xvg file to csv and Excel (xlsx) files.

Notes and usage:
1. The script reads and converts fixed column width files (.xvg files) generated by Gromacs.
To convert a single file: python3 xvg2csv.py -file 123.xvg

2. The bash script (loop.sh) converts all xvg files in a folder to corresponding csv and xlsx files. The script also merges all the generated csv files into a single csv (merged.csv). The generated csv and xlsx files can be found in directories named "csv" and "xlsx".
The column headers indicate  x and y values (first and second column in xvg/csv file) and the filename.
For example, a column header pair x_123,y_123 indicates  values from the first and the second column, respectively, of file 123.csv.

3. The filename of csv/xlsx file is the same as that of the input xvg file.

Caution:
1. Keep a backup of original files.
2. Verify that the output csv/xlsx files have the same values as in the xvg file. In case there are differences (truncation of values), try using the following:
	python3 xvg2csv.py -file 123.xvg -cw2
3. If the number of rows in the csv/xvg files are not same, a part of column in merged.csv will be shifted to an adjacent column. This can be fixed by moving (cut and paste) the column manually to the correct location in MS Excel or LibreOffice or any other suitable program.

Requirements:
On Ubuntu, the following packages are required: openpyxl argparse pandas
To install these, 
	sudo pip3 install openpyxl argparse pandas

